
Trump, Biden get nasty in first presidential debate
President Trump and Democratic nominee Joe Biden held a fiery first presidential debate Tuesday night, sparring over everything from the Supreme Court nomination, coronavirus and Biden's sons, with moderator Chris Wallace of Fox News admonishing Trump several times for interrupting and deploring both candidates to let the other speak.

The first of three scheduled showdowns between Trump, 74, and Biden, 77, devolved into attacks on Hunter Biden, smarts and schoolyard name-calling. As Trump went on offense, Biden tried to shut him down by calling the president a "clown" and a "liar."

Wallace scolded Trump repeatedly for not following the debate rules by interrupting and the veteran newsman often played the role of a wrestling referee rather than a moderator.


"Gentlemen, I hate to raise my voice, but why shouldn’t I be different than the two of you?" Wallace said.

Trump came out swinging, but Biden held his own and didn't fall into previous debate pitfalls where he cut his time short or stumbled to get out responses. The two men often talked over each other in a brawl that got unwieldy at times.

The president touted his record in the White House on boosting the economy and how he handled the pandemic, proclaiming: "There has never been an administration or president who has done more than I've done in a period of three and a half years, and that's despite the impeachment hoax."

But Biden said under Trump the country has become weaker, sicker, poorer and more violent. CLICK HERE FOR MORE ON OUR TOP STORY.

In other developments:
- Laura Ingraham: 'Raucous' Trump-Biden debate shows traditional format 'doesn't work very well'
- CNN calls presidential debate a 's---show' and a 'disgrace,' blames TrumpBiden pushes back against ties to Bernie Sanders during first debate: 'I am the Democratic party'
- Debate goes off the rails as Trump interrupts, Biden bickers in shoutfest
- Rep. Eric Swalwell: Biden wins first debate, Trump is truth’s worst enemy
- Celebrities react to first presidential debate of 2020
- Trump targets Hunter Biden's foreign business dealings during heated debate clash

Sean Hannity: Biden was 'flustered,' 'irritated' and 'cranky' during first debate
President Trump “steamrolled” Joe Biden during the first presidential debate on Tuesday night, Fox News host Sean Hannity said during live coverage from Cleveland.


“The extremely weak, the frail, the confused, kind of angry Joe Biden just got steamrolled by President Trump,” said the “Hannity” host. “Joe flat-out refused to answer simple, basic, fundamental questions, unable to respond to the president’s beatdowns. He appeared flustered, irritated and, well, cranky.”

For example, Biden avoided answering whether he supports expanding the size of the Supreme Court. The host also pointed out numerous gaffes by the former vice president, including mixing up numbers and misinterpreting questions.

Hannity then charged that Biden has spent his nearly 47 years in public office “lining the pockets” of his own family.

“Despite denying it, he’s wrong,” Hannity said. “That includes zero-experience Hunter Biden. As we have learned this week ... we have wire transfers, millions of dollars from Ukrainian, Russian oligarchs. Shopping sprees courtesy of China ...  And of course the $1.5 billion deal with the Bank of China. But he denied it all.”

Hannity concluded by questioning if the media will ever fact-check Biden, and emphasized his nearly five decades in Washington with “nothing to show for it.”  
